LANGUAGE
python version 3
- pygame for graphics, pygame ui for gui, and libtcod for logic OR
- bearlib for everything
* I'll figure it out soon
all english in text/json for easy translations if needed


SCOPE
not very big rn just main mechanics etc
will probably implement the stuff in the d&d folder after the main mechanics
no/very basic animations if using bearlib

base attributes: 10 is average
vitality - hitpoints 0 hitpoints kills the character
metabolism - hunger rate 0 metabolism locks hunger rate
strength - attack damage 0 str = 0 damage
dexterity - armor; 0 dex locks movement
intelligence - magic stuff

determined attributes: will be different depending on balancing etc...
current/max health - if u run out u die
current/max hunger - for starvation
armor - reduces incoming damage


current exp/level - gained through eating bananas? levelups available at exp threshholds
1 exp per meal
x = exp, y = level


classes:
gorilla     big and strong, need more food, can charge attack, (large bite and two large punches, large hd, +2 str +2 vit -2 met)
chimpanzee  start with extra bananas, nimble, can grapple attack, (bite, two claws, small hd, +2 dex), can climb back up stairs
orangutan   chill af, can use feet like hands (bite, 2 claws 2 punches, medium hd), can climb back up stairs
human       biggest peepee, pretends to be smart, excellent thrower, can cook food (very small bite and small two punches, small hd)
neanderthal great vision/FOV, excellent thrower, can rake attack,  can cook food (small bite and two punches, medium hd)

currency for shops is bananas but you can also eat them to fend off starvation, use them as a missile weapon, fuel a rage, make a trip trap, etc etc..

features to add:
console alerts when all monsters on level are dead
poop button
throw anything
yelling

REFINE:
rendering - new order: 1. floor, 2. stairs 3. items 4. monsters 5. player 6. walls if wall overlap 2-5 then make wall translucent
doors 
viewport
FOV shadows
console
working staircases
gear/items
inventory
map

TODO:
item quantities
monsters
traps
water
lava
money
shops
magic stuffs
grafting
(animations and sound/music can wait)

when game is somewhat done replace all sprites/animations with your own stuff

ANIMATIONS:
everything has a shaded variant (go in gimp and darken with a blue tint except for the background color (16, 16, 16))

creature animations: NORTH, NORTHEAST(northwest mirror), EAST(west mirror), SOUTHEAST(southwest morror), SOUTH for 5 unique sprite directions for each
walk, descend and ascend might be separate
attack, throw might be separate
dodge
take hit, die might be separate
pick up, drop might be separate
eat
poo
enter rage
yell

game mechanics: modular component system

weapons with multiple types have different moves for each type e.g. a zweihander can slash, stab, or mordhau-style smash while a hafted-ax can only slash

armor provides damage reduction

RELATED ABILITIES:
- left handed, large melee attack and damage bonus perhaps due to unfamiliarity or something more sinister
- ambidexterous, may wield two weapons in each hand for two attacks per round
- butterfingers, huge penalty to all attacks
- nearsighted, huge penalty to ranged weapon attacks
- farsighted, huge penalty to melee weapon attacks
- cleric, huge penalty to slashing and thrusting weapon attacks unless they are also Fire or Blessed


WEAPON ABILITIES
- melee, the weapon may only attack an adjacent target
- slashing, the weapon can slash to deal slashing damage
- bludgeoning, the weapon can strike to deal bludgeoning damage
- thrusting, the weapon can stab to deal thrusting damage
- reach, the melee weapon can attack twice as far away
- trip, the weapon can trip the target for a stunning effect. Works like an attack where hit = success.
- charge, the weapon can make a charge attack for extra damage. Must move in a straight line.
- pounce, the weapon can make a pounce attack (extra movement).
- disarm, the weapon can disarm the targets' weapons. Works like an attack where hit = success.
- parry, the weapon can reduce incoming damage. Roll to hit, but instead of damage, reduce incoming damage by the damage the block would've done.
- ranged, the weapon can attack from a distance within field of view
- ammo, the weapon requires ammunition to function
- one handed, the weapon can be wielded with a single hand
- two handed, the weapon requires both hands
- riposte, the weapon will automatically follow a successful parry with a counterattack.
- feint, the first attack of the weapon is always a critical.
- throw, the weapon can be thrown to make a ranged attack

ACTIVE DAMAGE TYPES: (each is type of attack as well as a damage type)
slashing (Sl) weapons E.G. SLASH
- bleed, successful hits deal additional damage over time
- cleave, weapon hits in an arc and may hit multiple enemies at once
- amputate, criticals may sever: (head=instant death, arm=no hand slot, leg=stunning effect)

bludgeoning (Bl) weapons E.G. STRIKE
- puncture, attack calculation ignores target' armor
- daze, criticals stun the target
- holy, attacks always critial the undead
str
thrusting (Th) weapons E.G. STAB
- bleed
- pierce, as puncture, but only with critials
- backstab, attacks always critical from behind

MODIFIED DAMAGE TYPES: apply to all attacks of the base weapon
fire (Fi) weapons
- burn, as bleed
- holy
- hot, attacks always critical creatures weak to fire

ice (Ic) weapons
- frostbite, as amputate
- cold, attacks always critical creatures weak to the cold

WEAPON TYPES:

Weapon Examples:
Hafted Axe (Sl)
Mace (Bl)
Longspear (Th)


Longsword (Sl/Th)
War Axe
War Hammer (Bl/Th)


Zweihander (Sl/Bl/Th)


examples:

(player is wielding a hafted axe and monster is attacking with slam)
Player slashes Monster for 12 damage. Monster bleeds for 3 damage.
Monster bashes Player for 23 damage. Monster bleeds for 3 damage. 
ETC

(player is wielding a rapier and buckler. monster is attacking with slam)
Player readies a parry.
Monster is parried by player. Monster takes 30 riposte damage.
Player readies a parry.
Monster bashes through the parry for 24 damage.

(player is wielding a flaming longsword and mummy is using its slam attack)
Player slashes mummy for 41 critical damage! Mummy burns for 12 damage!
Mummy dies and drops 3 gold and 1 linen. 4 EXP!

spell/scroll etc ideas:
weapon spell
summon allied creature
turn creature into banana
explode brain (brainless creatures would be immune)
lightning (deal damage directly and channeled through water and sets oil on fire)
enhance a weapon
shoot a missile

MONSTER TYPES (for reference, look at monsters.txt)
Undead
Lycanthropes
Dark Elves (all elves)
Golems
Giants
Orcs
Dwarves
Humans
Slimes
Mimics
Traps
Dragons
Plants

Items:
banana - eat to gain exp and satiate, throw at a target to trip them. throw on the ground to make that tile slippery
x vial - collect a liquid with an empty one and throw one with a particular liquid to cover an area with a hazard
helm/armor - different types provide damage reduction
lantern - extend fov but requires oil as a fuel
x boot - prevents damage from x environmental hazard
weapons - see above but with enhanced and cursed variants. enhanced weapons


Environmental Hazards:
fire - deals damage every round a creature stands in it and ten rounds thereafter
water - slippery and puts out fire
oil - slippery and can be set on fire
acid - deals damage every round a creature stands in it and destroys a piece of gear. Can also dissolve items
spikes - deals damage every round a creature stands in it 
banana - like oil but fire destroys
lava - mechanically, combination of acid and fire
ice - slippery and puts out fire and also deals damage every round a creature stands in it

Specific Monsters:
goblin - easy to kill but teach positioning as they can quickly swarm a player
kobold - like goblins but they can summon each other
skeleton - mindless undead weak to fire but sometimes carry good weapons and armor
mummy - a zombie with a poisonous melee attack
zombie - an undead with lots of health
minotaur - tanky and highly damaging equipped with good weapons
ogre - naked big beefy boy
troll - like an ogre but regenerates hitpoints
orc - mid-tier stats and equipped with shoddy gear
elf - equipped with bows 
centaur - like elves but faster
yellow ooze - each attack destroys a piece of gear
green ooze - each attack poisons the player
purple ooze - each attack
black ooze = each attack oils
red ooze - each attack burns
blue ooze - each attack soaks
pink ooze - each attack heals 

TODO OF STUFF 
give cells a targeting flamingrender it with a target if it is targeted
makve separate targeting for any tile and los tile

give lore to everything by a storytype of variable that is readable with a menu

give weapon generators that return a random weapon from a certain genre of weapons e.g. small, swords, etc...
this would be good for spawning monsters with random weapons.
Have weapons drop from creature on death.



